# Assignment 2: Automatic Crowds

> *Nobody goes there anymore. It's too crowded.*
>
> Yogi Berra

You've probably seen movies with huge crowds of people. While they might
sometimes have real people, nowadays crowds are often computer-generated. This
gives the film-makers more control over their size and behaviour, and probably
saves them money as well.

So in this assignment, we'll explore how to make a simple crowd scene using
turtle graphics.

**Answer the questions below in order**: later questions depend upon earlier
ones. Use *exactly* the function name and parameters as given in the question,
put all your functions into a single Python file named `a2.py`.

When you're done, submit your finished `a2.py` file on Canvas.


## Question 1: Regular Polygons

Write a function called `polygon(n, size)` that uses turtle graphics to draw
an $n$-sided [regular polygon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_polygon)
with each side of length `size`.

Use this algorithm:

- Set the turning $\mathit{angle}$ to be $\frac{360}{n}$.
- Do the following $n$ times:
	+ draw a line of length `size`
	+ turn left $\mathit{angle}$ degrees


## Question 2: Jumping

Write a function called `jump_to(x, y)` that moves the turtle to position
(`x`, `y`) *without* drawing a line. After the turtle has jumped to (`x`, `y`)
its pen should be down, ready to draw.

`turtle.goto(x, y)` will move the turtle to (`x`, `y`), but if the pen is down
it will draw an unwanted line.


## Question 3: Circles

Write a function called `circle(radius)` that draws a circle whose radius is
`radius`. To draw a circle in turtle graphics, just draw a polygon with lots
of sides, say 50 - 100.

To calculate the size (length) of the polygon edges, use this formula inside
your `circle` function:

$$\mathit{size} = 2 \mathit{r} \sin \frac{\pi}{n}$$

Here, $r$ is the radius passed to `circle`, and $n$ is the number sides of the
polygon.

The `sin` function, and `pi`, are in Python's `math` module.


## Question 4: Eyes

Write a function called `eye(radius)` that draws one (cartoon) eye using two
circles: a big circle, and a filled-in smaller circle inside the big one
(representing the pupil).

Use the `turtle.begin_fill()` and `turtle.end_fill()` functions to fill-in the
smaller circle.


## Question 5: Mouths

Write a function called `mouth(size, style)` that draws a (cartoon) mouth as
follows:

- If `style == 'happy'`, the mouth is drawn smiling. 
- If `style == 'sad'`, the mouth is drawn frowning.
- If `style == surprised`, the mouth is drawn as a circle.
- For any other value of `style`, the mouth is drawn as a neutral expression,
  e.g. a straight line.

What exactly `size` means is up to you. Make it so that the bigger `size` is,
the bigger the mouth.


## Question 6: Noses

Write a function called `nose(size)` that draws a (cartoon) nose that consists
of, at least, two different shapes. The exact style and look of the nose is up
to you.

As with `mouth`, what exactly `size` means is up to you. Make it so that the
bigger `size` is, the bigger the nose.


## Question 7: Heads

Write a function called `head(size)` that draws a (cartoon) head that consists
of, at least, two eyes, a random mouth, a nose, and a head (e.g. a circle) all
around it. Use the functions you wrote above to draw the eyes, mouth, and
nose.

Choose the mouth style at random to be one of the 4 mouth shapes.

The size of the head should be controllable using `size`, e.g. a small value
of `size` should draw a small head, and a big value should draw a big head.
Make sure all the eyes, nose, and mouth fit into it snugly and are
proportional to the size.


## Question 8: Stick Figures

Write a function called `stick_figure(size)` that adds a head (using `head`),
and a body underneath it. It should have, at least, a body, arms, and legs.
They can be simple stick figures if you like, or more elaborate.

**Include some randomness in the body beyond just the mouth randomness**. For
example, you could chose the color at random, or make the arms point in random
directions, or draw the body with different thicknesses, etc.


## Question 9: Crowds

Write a function called `crowd(n, size)` that draws `n` stick figures (using
your `stick_figure` function) at random locations on the screen.


## Marking Scheme

**2 marks** each for questions 1 to 9 (a total of 18 marks)

**1 mark** overall: consistent indentation and spacing (all blank lines and
spaces should have a good reason for being there)

**1 mark** overall: all variable names are self-descriptive

**1 mark** overall: the length of all lines are less than, or equal to, 100
characters
