# Assignment 1

This assignment is a set of practice problems to help you get familiar with
Python and its environment. For each question you should write your answers in
the corresponding file: [q1.py](q1.py), [q2.py](q2.py), [q3.py](q3.py), and
[q4.py](q4.py).

When you are done, put [q1.py](q1.py), [q2.py](q2.py), [q3.py](q3.py), and
[q4.py](q4.py) into a .zip file named `a1.zip`, and submit just `a1.zip` on
[Canvas](https://canvas.sfu.ca/courses/73212).

**Hint** The notes at the end of this assignment explain f-strings and string
arithmetic, which are needed in the questions.


## Question 1

Put your answer to this question in [q1.py](q1.py).

Write a program that asks the user for their name and age, and then prints a
hello message that also says how old they'll be in 25 years. Use **f-strings**
to print the output.

For example:

```
What's your name? Elon
How old are you? 51

Hi Elon! In 25 years you'll be 76 years old.
```

You don't need to do any error checking: assume a sensible name and integer
age are entered.


## Question 2

Put your answer to this question in [q2.py](q2.py).

Write a program that converts feet to meters. Ask the user to enter a
measurement in feet, and then print out how much that is in meters:

```
How many feet? 21
21.0 is about 6.4 meters
```

Use f-strings to format your output. It should work for any number the user
enters. Make your output the same as shown. The value for both the feet and
meters should be printed to *exactly* 1 decimal place.

To convert feet $$f$$ to meters $$m$$, use the formula $$m = 0.3408 f$$.

You can assume the user enters a valid number.


## Question 3

Put your answer to this question in [q3.py](q3.py).

Write a program that asks the user to enter a message, and also a box
character, and prints the message in the box using the given box character.
Print it in exactly the same style used in the examples.

For example:

```
What do you want your sign to say? Code Carefully
What character do you want for the box? !

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
! Code Carefully !
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
```

Or:

```
What do you want your sign to say? SFU
What character do you want for the box? %

%%%%%%%
% SFU %
%%%%%%%
```

Make sure your box has *exactly* the same format as shown. Note that there is
one space before the message, and one space after the message.

Assume the user enters a single character for the box character.


## Question 4

Put your answer to this question in [q4.py](q4.py).

You're working for a company named *Pool Master 3000*, and they install
backyard pools. They would like you to write a program that estimates the
volume and cost of a pool given its dimensions.

Here's a sample of how the program should work:

```
--------------------
- Pool Master 3000 -
--------------------

Enter all measurements are in meters.

How many meters wide is your pool? 3.1
How many meters long is your pool? 6.5
How many meters deep is your pool? 2

                Volume of water: 40.3 cubic liters
           Surface area of pool: 38.4 square meters
Lining, $42.50 per square meter: $1,632.00
```

Your program should do the following:

- Print the title of the program at the top of the screen, plus the message
  that all measurements are in meters.
- Ask the user to enter the width, length, and depth of the pool. For
  simplicity, assume the entire pool has one depth. Also assume the user only
  enters sensible positive numbers.
- The volume of the pool is printed to *exactly* 1 decimal digit. Use the
  formula $$v = wld$$, where $$v$$ is volume, $$w$$ is width, $$l$$ is length,
  and $$d$$ is depth.
- The surface area of the pool is printed to *exactly* 1 decimal digit. The
  surface area is the area of the bottom of the pool, plus the four walls. Use
  the formula $$s = wl + 2dl + 2dw$$, where $$s$$ is surface area, $$w$$ is
  width, $$l$$ is length, and $$d$$ is depth.
- Print the cost of the lining to *exactly* 2 decimal digits. One square meter
  of lining costs $42.50, and so the total lining cost is the surface area of
  the pool times $42.50. Also, since the cost of the lining could be quite
  high, use commas to group the digits into threes, e.g. print `14,151.00`
  instead of `14151.00`.

## Marking Scheme

**2 marks** for question 1: 1 for correctness, 1 for using f-strings properly

**2 marks** for question 2: 1 for correctness, 1 for using f-strings properly

**2 marks** for question 3: 1 for correctness, 1 for using string arithmetic
properly

**6 marks** for question 4: 1 mark for correctly implementing each bullet
point, and 1 mark for beautiful output that is easy to read and understand

**1 mark** overall: consistent indentation and spacing (all blank space should
have a good reason for being there)

**1 mark** overall: all variable names are self-descriptive

**1 mark** overall: the length of all lines are less than, or equal to, 100
characters

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Notes

### Printing with f-strings

This program says *hello* to the user:

```python
name = input("What's your name? ")
print("Hello", name, "!")
```

For example:

```
What's your name? Elon
Hello Elon !
```

Notice the space before the `!`. When you use commas in a `print` statement,
they always add this extra space.

A more flexible way of printing in Python is to use an **f-string**:

```python
name = input("What's your name? ")
print(f"Hello {name}!")
```

This gets rid of the space:

```
What's your name? Elon
Hello Elon!
```

An f-string is a regular Python string that starts with `f`. Inside the
string, any variable or expression that appears inside curly braces, `{}`, is
evaluated and its result is put into the string at that position. An f-string
is like a template, and in practice they are a nice way to make formatted
strings.

### Number precision with f-strings

Consider this program:

```python
x = 12.3456
print(f'x = {x}')
```

It prints this:

```
x = 12.3456
```

There are 4 digits after the decimal point. But what if you only want 2 digits
after the decimal? You can do that like this:

```python
x = 12.3456
print(f'x = {x:.2f}')
```

This prints:

```
x = 12.35
```

Instead of `{x}` in the f-string, we wrote `{x:.2f}`. The `.2` means to put
exactly two digits after the decimal point, and the `f` means to format the
number in regular floating point style. Notice also that the last digit has
been *rounded up*.

If you want more digits after the decimal than the number has, 0s are added.
For example:

```python
x = 12.3456
print(f'x = {x:.7f}')
```

This prints:

```
x = 12.3456000
```

Three `0`s were automatically added to make exactly 7 digits after the
decimal.

### Comma Grouping with f-strings

f-strings make it easy to write numbers in style that uses commas to group
three digits together:

```python
>>> cost = 1391.25

>>> print(f'cost is ${cost:.2f}')
cost is $1391.25

>>> print(f'cost is ${cost:,.2f}')   # note the ,
cost is $1,391.25

>>> cost = 348355303.232
>>> print(f'cost is ${cost:,.2f}')   # note the ,
cost is $348,355,303.23
```

### String Arithmetic

Here are some string functions that are needed in the next question:

```python
>>> s = 'hamster'
>>> t = 'food'

>>> len(s)         # the len function
7                  # returns the number
>>> len(t)         # of characters in a string
4                   

>>> s + t          # + adds two strings to
'hamsterfood'      # make a new one
>>> s + " " + t
'hamster food'

>>> 3 * t          # * makes a new string by
'foodfoodfood'     # repeating a string
>>> 3 * t + '!'
'foodfoodfood!'
>>> 3 * (t + '!')
'food!food!food!'

>>> s + '\n' + len(s)*'-'         # a neat trick for
'hamster\n-------'                # underlining a string
>>> print(s + '\n' + len(s)*'-')
hamster
-------
```

<script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>
